---
title: ASEAN Customs Transit System (ACTS)
permalink: /businesses/ASEAN-Customs-Transit-System/overview
third_nav_title: Overview
---
# ASEAN Customs Transit System (ACTS)

The objective of this page is to guide traders on how to participate in the ACTS.

## What is ACTS and who can apply? 

The ASEAN Customs Transit System (ACTS) is a computerised Customs transit management system available to operators who move goods across borders without paying the required duties and taxes otherwise due when the goods enter or leave the country.  Requiring only one Customs formality, it facilitates trader by allowing traders to transport goods freely between the participating ASEAN Member States*.  A truck can travel from its point of loading to its destination in a different country with no need for a different Customs declaration at each border, and no need to transfer the goods to a different truck in each country.  The duties and taxes are covered by a single guarantee for all the countries involved in the transit operation. <br>
<sup>**\*Participating Member States include Cambodia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam.**

## Who can apply?

All traders, which includes importers, exporters, transporters, freight forwarders and Customs agents are eligible to use the ACTS to transport goods across borders.  Traders must be registered as transit traders (ATT or non-ATT) with the participating ASEAN Member States*.

Traders who are qualified to be Authorised Transit Traders (ATT) will be given certain privileges that include permission to start transit movements from their own premises at departure, and to deliver to their own premises at destination.

## Step 1: Register as Transit Trader

You are required to be registered as a transit trader with Singapore Customs and be provided with a user account in ACTS before you can submit a transit declaration in ACTS. 
You will need to complete the following application forms and email them to [Customs_Documentation@customs.gov.sg](mailto:Customs_Documentation@customs.gov.sg).

   1. [Trader Registration Form](/eservices/customs-forms-and-service-links); and
   2. [Employee Declarant Details and Authorisation Form](/eservices/customs-forms-and-service-links).

Upon registration, Singapore Customs will issue a Trader Identification Number (TIN) to the registered transit trader (also known as Principal) and a Personal ID to each registered employee(s) for the submission of transit declarations in ACTS. A Principal can also authorise a different legal entity to submit the ACTS transit declaration on their behalf by submitting a [Broker/Representative Authorisation Letter](/eservices/customs-forms-and-service-links). Both the employee of the Principal Trader and the representative/broker authorised by the Principal Trader can submit the transit declaration in ACTS.

### Additional Information:
**ASEAN Goods Vehicle Cross-Border Permit (AGVCBP)**<br>
Vehicles that are used to transport goods under the ACTS must each be allocated with the ASEAN Goods Vehicle Cross-Border Permit (AGVCBP). For more information on the AGVCBP and its application procedures, please contact LTA via the online feedback form: [https://www.lta.gov.sg/feedback/](https://www.lta.gov.sg/feedback/){:target="_blank"} and visit the [AGVCBP webpage](https://acts.asean.org/traders-guide/ASEAN-goods){:target="_blank"}. 

## Step 2: Obtain a Guarantee

Before the commencement of a transit journey, transit traders are required to lodge a single journey or multiple journey guarantee in the departure country where the goods are loaded:<br>
   - **Single Journey Guarantee** covers only a single transit operation by the Principal concerned, covering the full amount of duties, taxes and other charges for which the goods are liable.<br> 
   - **Multiple Journey Guarantee** covers several transit operations up to a given Reference Amount, set to equal 100% of the total amount of duties and other charges that may be incurred for goods under the Principal’s transit operations over a period of at least one week.
 
You may obtain the relevant forms from the ACTS webpage [here](https://acts.asean.org/traders-guide/guarantee){:target="_blank"} and submit the completed Forms to the participating banks for lodgement of guarantee.

## Step 3: Apply for Customs Permit

Existing domestic customs procedures continue to apply to the movement of goods into and out of Singapore under ACTS. Please refer to the Quick Guide for [Importers](/businesses/importing-goods/overview) and [Exporters](/businesses/exporting-goods/overview) to know more about the import and export procedures.

You are therefore required to apply for a customs permit via TradeNet to account for the importation, exportation and transhipment of goods in addition to submitting a transit declaration through ACTS. In the TradeNet permit application, you should indicate “ACTS Movement” in the Trader’s Remark field.  The normal controls and requirements for TradeNet permit applications e.g. proper authorisation/licences from the Competent Authorities (CA) will continue to apply.

## Step 4: Make a Transit Declaration through ACTS

Registered traders must submit an ACTS transit declaration to Customs to initiate a transit movement. 

### What type of goods are allowed to be moved under the ACTS?
Under ACTS, a list of prohibited, excluded and restricted list of goods is maintained by each ASEAN Member State based on respective security and safety requirements. As long as goods declared in your transit declaration is prohibited and excluded in any of ASEAN Member States involved in the transit movement, the product will not be allowed to be moved under the ACTS.

[Dutiable goods](/businesses/valuation-duties-taxes-and-fees/duties-and-dutiable-goods) in Singapore are not allowed to be moved under the ACTS. You are advised to check with the respective Customs administrations of the other ASEAN Member States on the relevant requirements.

### How do I declare an outgoing ACTS movement from Singapore?
If you are exporting goods as a non-ATT under normal procedures, you will need to plan and indicate your preferred journey route. For goods departing from Singapore, you may select either Woodlands Checkpoint or Tuas Checkpoint as the Departure Office. The truck will need to be physically presented at the selected departure office. The transit office and destination office to be selected will be located in other countries, depending on the route.

If you are exporting goods as an ATT under simplified procedures, you may select either Woodlands Checkpoint or Tuas Checkpoint as the Departure Office and Transit Office. If you select Woodlands as Departure office, it should also be reflected as Transit office. The same applies to Tuas Checkpoint.

|  |**Non-ATT (Normal Procedures)**|**ATT (Simplified Procedures)**  |
|--|--|--|
|**Departure Office**|Tuas or Woodlands Checkpoint |	Tuas or Woodlands Checkpoint|
|**Transit Office**|	Customs office in other country(ies) e.g. Malaysia|Tuas or Woodlands Checkpoint and Customs office in other country(ies) e.g. Malaysia|
|**Destination Office**|	Customs office in other country e.g. Thailand |	Customs office in other country e.g. Thailand|

Upon the approval of your transit declaration, you will be issued with the permit, which is a single transit barcoded document known as Transit Accompanying Document (TAD). Please print a copy of the TAD and pass it to the truck driver for cargo clearance at the land checkpoints.

### How do I declare an incoming ACTS movement from Singapore?
If you are importing goods as both a non-ATT or ATT, the overseas trader based in the country of departure should select either Woodlands Checkpoint or Tuas Checkpoint as the Destination Office in the transit declaration. 

You may refer to the [Procedures Manual for Principals and Transporters](https://acts.asean.org/traders-guide/procedures-manual-principals-and-transporters){:target="_blank"} for more information.

## Step 5: Prepare Documents for Cargo Clearance
All incoming and outgoing ACTS trucks are to be physically present at the land checkpoints for clearance. The truck driver will need to present the physical copy of TAD, corresponding customs permit and supporting documents for cargo clearance. 
Please note that existing domestic clearance procedures would still apply.

